---
title: Here’s How Sober Peer’s Remote Patient Monitoring Empowers Patients
description: It’s been approximately one year since Sober Peer began to rethink
  how to deliver more frequent patient interaction with its new Remote Patient
  Monitoring (RPM) platform. It became clear that chronic “lifestyle diseases”
  -- behaviorally influenced habits -- needed deep and frequent interaction to
  discourage relapse events. This approach requires a different set of
  mobility-oriented tools not often found in client record-keeping systems.
date: 2023-03-22T20:12:39+05:30
tags:
  - Post
  - Featured
postTags:
  - Exclusive
  - Mental Health
  - Addiction
  - Drugs
imageAlt: test
---
RPM makes it easier for each patient to have a successful recovery. By collecting data on each patient, they can identify and measure their progress in 12 different types of behavior, including their addiction, and physical and mental health. Each patient sees these results and is empowered to continue making good decisions. In effect, they are providing more of their own self-care.

Sober Peer’s approach uses predictive analytics to focus on behavior to treat patients and reduce relapses. Our smart phone app sends Sober Signals™ from the phone to a database that is supported by artificial intelligence programs. These Signals reveal patterns of behavior and sorts them into meaningful, and organized observations for therapists.

Here’s a good example. A person who is an alcoholic can avoid bars they frequent by setting alerts for these locations on their phones.  Once they approach these bars, a “triggers” mechanism alerts them and their counselor to avoid them. The counselor will even call the patient to make certain they stay away.

“Technology that empowers self-care also enables clinicians and counselors to monitor a patient’s behavior and intervene when needed; that saves time and makes the process more responsive,” says Ed De Shields, Sober Peer’s founder and chief executive officer. “As a result, patients are finding the shortest path to a successful recovery.” 

By connecting with the patient’s smart phone, the app leverages remote patient monitoring, artificial intelligence and data analysis tools to support clinical decision making. Clinicians can monitor patient vital signs remotely and then intervene when needed. The platform is also important as part of an aftercare plan, helping ease patients’ transition from the hospital to their home or a post-acute care facility.

“Our goal is to change the way care is delivered,” DeShields says. “By analyzing data generated by each patient daily, we can intervene and provide immediate treatment.”

It’s also important to realize that recovery doesn’t end when the initial treatment program is completed. Most clinical programs effectively hand their clients over to a “community care” third party, which breaks the cadence of treatment. We believe this approach is the major reason for high to very high relapse rates.